TELCODOCS-299-workload-partitioning (#43406)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning-on-single-node-openshift.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning_{context}"]
= Enabling workload partitioning

> Use the following procedure to enable workload partitioning for your single node deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following procedure to enable workload partitioning for single node OpenShift deployments.
```

Author: no change.

.Procedure

. To enable workload partitioning, you must provide a `MachineConfig` manifest during installation to
configure CRI-O and kubelet to know about the workload types. The following example shows a manifest, without the encoded file content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
  name: 02-master-workload-partitioning
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,encoded-content-here
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning
        user:
          name: root
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,encoded-content-here
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning
        user:
          name: root
----

> . Provide the contents of `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning` as the workload partitioning

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that this (and the contents of the `openshift-workload-pinning` file below) should be base-64 encoded?  Should we provide an example of how to do that?

[id="sno-du-enabling-workload-partitioning_{context}"]
= Enabling workload partitioning

Use the following procedure to enable workload partitioning for your single node deployments.

.Procedure

. To enable workload partitioning, you must provide a `MachineConfig` manifest during installation to
configure CRI-O and kubelet to know about the workload types. The following example shows a manifest, without the encoded file content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
  name: 02-master-workload-partitioning
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,encoded-content-here
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning
        user:
          name: root
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,encoded-content-here
        mode: 420
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning
        user:
          name: root
----

> . Provide the contents of `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning` as the workload partitioning
> encoded content. The `cpuset` value will vary based on the deployment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Provide the contents of `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d/01-workload-partitioning` as the workload partitioning encoded content. The `cpuset` value varies based on the deployment:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
cat <<EOF | base64 -w0
[crio.runtime.workloads.management]
activation_annotation = "target.workload.openshift.io/management"
annotation_prefix = "resources.workload.openshift.io"
resources = { "cpushares" = 0, "cpuset" = "0-1,52-53" }
EOF
----

> . Provide the contents of `/etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning` as the workload pinning
> encoded content. The `cpuset` value will vary based on the deployment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Provide the contents of `/etc/kubernetes/openshift-workload-pinning` as the workload pinning encoded content. The `cpuset` value varies based on the deployment:
```
